specs/nsid: re-write NSID spec (#100)
bluesky-social/atproto-website: content/specs/nsid.md

---
title: Namespaced Identifiers (NSIDs)
summary: A specification for global semantic IDs.
---

> Namespaced Identifiers (NSIDs) are used to reference Lexicon schemas for records, XRPC endpoints, and more.

Author: whoops! good catch

The basic structure and semantics of an NSID are a fully-qualified hostname in Reverse Domain-Name Order, followed by a simple name. The hostname part is the "domain authority", and the final segment is the "name".

### NSID Syntax

Lexicon string type: `nsid`

A quick summary of NSID syntax is that the domain authority part of an NSID must be a valid handle with the order of segments reversed. That is followed by a name segment which must be an ASCII camel-case string.

The full syntax rules:

> - The overall NSID must contain only ASCII characters. the "domain authority" part and the "name" part are separated by an ASCII period character (`.`)
> - The initial "domain authority" part is made of segments separated by periods (`.`). the domain authority part is at most 253 characters (including periods), and must contain at least two segments
>     - Each segment must have at least 1 and at most 63 characters (not including any periods). the allowed characters are ASCII letters (`a-z`), digits (`0-9`), and hyphens (`-`)
>     - Segments can not start or end with a hyphen.
>     - The first segment (the "top level domain") can not start with a numeric digit
>     - The "domain authority" is not case-sensitive, and should be normalized to lowercase (that is, normalize ASCII `A-Z` to `a-z`)
> - The "name" part must have at least 1 and at most 63 characters
>     - The allowed characters are ASCII letters only (`A-Z`, `a-z`): digits and hyphens are not allowed
>     - The "name" part is case-sensitive and should not be normalized
> 
> Combining the above rules, the NSID must have at least 3 segments, and can have a maximum total length of 317 characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Overall NSID:
    - must contain only ASCII characters
    - separate the domain authority and the name by an ASCII period character (`.`)
    - must have at least 3 segments
    - can have a maximum total length of 317 characters
- Domain authority:
    - made of segments separated by periods (`.`)
    - at most 253 characters (including periods), and must contain at least two segments
    - each segment must have at least 1 and at most 63 characters (not including any periods)
    - the allowed characters are ASCII letters (`a-z`), digits (`0-9`), and hyphens (`-`)
    - segments can not start or end with a hyphen
    - the first segment (the top-level domain) can not start with a numeric digit
    - the domain authority is not case-sensitive, and should be normalized to lowercase (that is, normalize ASCII `A-Z` to `a-z`)
- Name:
    - must have at least 1 and at most 63 characters
    - the allowed characters are ASCII letters only (`A-Z`, `a-z`)
    - digits and hyphens are not allowed
    - case-sensitive and should not be normalized
```

A reference regex for NSID is:

```
/^[a-zA-Z]([a-zA-Z0-9-]{0,61}[a-zA-Z0-9])?(\.[a-zA-Z]([a-zA-Z0-9-]{0,61}[a-zA-Z0-9])?)+(\.([a-zA-Z]{1,63}))$
```

### NSID Syntax Variations

> A "fragment" may be appended to an NSID in some contexts to refer to a specific sub-field within the schema. The fragment is separated from the NSID by an ASCII hash character (`#`). The fragment identifier string (after the `#`) has the same syntax restrictions as the final segment of an NSID: ASCII alphabetic, one or more characters, length restricted, etc.
> 
> When referring to a group or pattern of NSIDs, a trailing ASCII star character (`*`) can be used as a "glob" character. For example, `com.atproto.*` would refer to any NSIDs under the `[atproto.com](http://atproto.com)` domain authority, including nested sub-domains (sub-authorities). A free-standing `*` would match all NSIDs from all authorities. Currently, there may be only a single start character; it must be the last character; and it must be at a segment boundary (no partial matching of segment names). This means the start character must be proceeded by a period, or be a bare star matching all NSIDs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A **fragment** may be appended to an NSID in some contexts to refer to a specific sub-field within the schema. The fragment is separated from the NSID by an ASCII hash character (`#`). The fragment identifier string (after the `#`) has the same syntax restrictions as the final segment of an NSID: ASCII alphabetic, one or more characters, length restricted, etc.

When referring to a group or pattern of NSIDs, a trailing ASCII star character (`*`) can be used as a "glob" character. For example, `com.atproto.*` would refer to any NSIDs under the `[atproto.com](http://atproto.com)` domain authority, including nested sub-domains (sub-authorities). A free-standing `*` would match all NSIDs from all authorities. Currently, there may be only a single start character; it must be the last character; and it must be at a segment boundary (no partial matching of segment names). This means the start character must be proceeded by a period, or be a bare star matching all NSIDs.
```

### Examples

> Syntaxtually-valid NSIDs:

Author: haha nice try bryan
